In the first video I looked to ego states, metaphors for different style of thinking, feeling, and behaving. I’ve told the controlling, nurturing, adapted and free styles; refer to in TA as parent and child, and contrasted with the adult. I’ll be going to a little deeper into scope these styles in the moment. I’ve also looked complimentary transactions, which the style through behaviors  between two people meet each other to produce stable dynamic and cross transactions where the respect styles conflict to produce unstable dynamics.
在第一个视频中，我说到了自我状态，象征着不同类型的想法、感受和行为（系统）。我讲述了控制型、照顾型、适应型和自由型的自我风格，涉及到TA 中的父母和儿童自我状态，还有成人自我状态。接下来我将会更深入地讲述这些自我类型。我也说到了互补沟通，即两个人通过行为满足各自的需求，并产生稳定的动力状态；此外还提到交错沟通，即两人的沟通发生冲突，产生不稳定的动力状态。
In this video I’ll looking at games and introducing the split transaction. But first a little more on ego states. This huge goal for all kinds of child and parent behavior here.
在这个视频中，我将着眼于游戏，并介绍暧昧沟通。但首先对自我状态多说一些。这个巨大的目标包含了各种的儿童和父母行为。
Taking the parent states, in initial viewing may think controlling is negative and nurturing is positive.
But let’s look closer. Controlling can cover some very negative traits like bossy, autocratic fault-finding and dismissive.  But it can also lead to positive experiences where structure and direction is needed. Create system can be given in constructive consider ways. 
对于父母自我状态，第一眼可能会认为控制型父母是负面的，照顾型父母是正面的。但让我们更深入的来看。控制型父母可能有专横、轻蔑和吹毛求疵等的特点，但它也是组织和目标所需要的，从而达到积极的体验。也可以通过结构性的、考虑周全的方式进行创新。
Nurturing may say positive when it is expressing support compassion and care. But it can also be smothering, stifling and overprotective and ending up feeling more critical than nurturing.
当表达支持、同情和关怀的时候，照顾型父母是正面的，但它也可能是令人窒息的和过度保护的，且最后的感觉是批评多于照顾(更多的是批评而非照顾)。
The same with the adapted and free child styles, in free mode, we can be egocentric and selfish, wild and inconsiderate. But we could be creative, playful, curious. Adapted mode refers how we change ourselves in response to rules lay down by authority. On the negative side we might’ve learn to be compliant, fearful, anxious and helpless. Or we might adapt the other behavior going against the rules, becoming rebellious and anti-conformist. On the positive side, adaptation can help us get along with other humans by observing reasonable conventions. Of course, with all of these factors there are degrees. 
适应型儿童和自由儿童也是同样道理。在自由型儿童的模式中，我们可能会自我中心、自私、野蛮和鲁莽，我们也可以是创造性的、幽默和好奇的。适应型的模式是关于我们如何改变自己以回应权威所制定的规则。它消极的一面是我们学会了顺从、害怕、焦虑和无助。或者我们用违反规则的方式来适应。变得反叛和桀骜不驯。适应的积极面是能够让我们通过遵守合理的惯例，从而与他人和睦相处。当然，所有这些因素都有程度之分。
Take compliant, like every fact here. It can range from week to strong. Compliant can be expressed many ways. It can be passive: reacting to people’s wishes, or anticipatory: predicting people’s wishes. The scope of human behavior here is vast. Which is great news for dealing with games, rather than being locked in two or three fixed responses. There is huge room for creativity and individuality.  
取所有因素中的顺从来说，它从弱到强划分。顺从可以表现为很多形式。它可以是消极被动的：按别人的愿望行事，或者先发制人：预测人们的期望。在此，人们的行为方式是很多的，对于应对游戏来说，这是个好消息。这要好于困在两三个固着的反应中。这里有发挥创意和独立性的巨大空间。
Here is the scenario. Person A says he has a problem. Person B starts suggesting solutions. One by one, Person A rejects every signal one of them, giving a reason why each solution wouldn’t work. B eventually runs out of ideas. A quips: “well you are great help.” This is a classic game known in TA as the “why don’t you/ yes but” game. In his book games people play, TA’s founder Eric Berne outline many such games. So why is a game? Well, because all was being said didn’t match what was going on psychologically. On the surface from the conversation, you might be thought A was looking for a help and B was offering it. But underneath A didn’t want help at all. What A actually wanted was attention and justification of her own inaction. What was going on with the ego status here? Well on the social level, it looks like adult-adult. B was offering reasonable, practical adult suggestions. And A was pointing out reasonable practical floors. But beneath that, on the psychological level, A is coming from the helpless victimy child position. And B is responding to that targ by adapting a rescuing parent style. This is  known as spilt transaction. Reflecting a split between surface prances(experiences) and alternate motives. A brings the game to an end, changing to a critical parent, with B changing to helpless child. This changing of states in the end of game is known as the switch. The switch is followed by what’s known as cross up. The period of disorientation, when the target of the game realize this is just been had. Now came to the payoffs. Well the game instigates feeling justified and superior. Well B fells deskilled and foolish. Games can be play to different degrees. TA proposes three broad levels. First degree games: the mildest forms, and feel acceptable in the play social groups. Play the second degree games: prefer to distance themselfves in the game and don’t share with people they known. Third degree games can lead injury, death, and criminal charges. Some suggest there is fourth degree play through politics, affecting communities, nations and planet.
这有一个场景。A说他有一个难题。B开始给他建议。A拒绝了每一个建议，并给出每个方法行不通的原因。B最后穷尽了所有建议，A嘲讽说你给了极好的帮助。在TA中这叫做“为什么不/是，但是”游戏。TA创始人伯恩在他的书《人间游戏》中总结了很多这样的游戏。为什么是个游戏？嗯，因为我们所说的和我们内心进行的是不一致的，在这个对话中，表面上你可能认为A是在寻求帮助，B给他提供帮助。但A潜意识一点也不需要帮助。A实际想要的是关注，以及为自己的不作为找理由。在此，自我状态是怎么运作的？嗯，在社交层面上，它看起来像成人对成人，B提供合理的、实际的成人建议， A指出合理的、实际的限制。但在此之下，在心理层面，A开始于无助的受害的儿童自我状态，B通过进入一个拯救的父母自我状态来回应这个靶子。这就是暧昧沟通。体现了表面行为和内在动机之间的分离。A将游戏导向了结束，变为一个批评的父母，B变为无助的儿童。在游戏结束时，这种状态的变化被称为“转换”。转换跟随着我们所知的“混乱”。在意识到游戏目的之前，所处的迷惑状态。接下来是结局。游戏使人产生正当和优越的感觉。B觉得自己无能且愚蠢。游戏可以玩到不同的程度。TA认为有三种程度。第一度游戏：轻微的挫败，在群体中感觉是可以接受的。二度游戏：宁愿远离人群去玩游戏，而不告诉周围的人。三度游戏能导致受伤、死亡和犯罪。有人认为有四度游戏，存在于政治、团体、国家和地球上。
TA suggests all parties in games active participates and this is the initiate target, not was the powerless victim but the very engaged player. To reflect the idea, TA assigns names to the contributions the respect players. Player A initiates the games with a con, and invitation in form of split transaction. For a game to proceed efficiently, player B must accept the con on both levels. By doing this in TA terms, B reviews the Gimmick. Some kind of need B has which A can exploit. They could need for approval or to say wise, do superior or even inferior. By the way we now have all of the components of the TA games formula, a game is defined as a combination of con plus gimmick leading to a serious exchanges or responses between the players which forms bulks game, then finally to a switch, a cross-up and pay-off.  
TA认为游戏中的每个人都是积极的参与者，其中有最初的共生作为目标，不是无助的受害者，而是非常投入的玩家。。。游戏者A在游戏的最初是钩，通过暧昧沟通来进行引诱，为了让游戏有效地进行，游戏者B必须在两个层面接受这个钩，在TA的术语中，B就是饵，A可以探询B的一些需求。。。顺便说一下，我们现在有了TA游戏公式的所有元素，一个游戏的定义是，钩和饵的结合，引起游戏者之间的沟通或回应，。。。最后变成一个转换、混乱和结局。
 Stephen Karpman provided another way to conceptualize games. In his famous Drama Triangle, employing the three dramatic roles of Victim, Persecutor and Rescuer. Transferring the “why don’t you/yes but “game to this format. We have A starting at victim and B is rescuer. The switch comes when A and B change roles， with A becoming persecutor, to B’s victim. Why do we play games? Well that’s the prospect of meeting mutual needs. The instigate through the con and the target through the gimmicks. Another reason is simply attention. If someone hungry for attention, they will seek out. 
卡普曼提供了另一种概念化游戏的方式。在他的著名的游戏三角中，引入了三个戏剧角色：受害者、迫害者和拯救者。把“为什么不/是，但是”的游戏用这个理论来解释。A以受害者入场，B是拯救者。当A和B改变角色时，转换发生了。A变成了迫害者，B变成了受害者。为什么我们玩游戏？目的是满足彼此的需求，即通过钩激发的感受和通过饵达到的目标（？）。另外一个简单的原因是获得关注。如果一个人特别缺乏关注，他们就会去寻求。
And in the opposite of the positive attention, negative attention still better than none at all. Drama provides potentially endless supply attention; it plays preparatory conflict switching from persecutor to hard down by victim and back again. The third idea is the game affirms TA called a ‘life position’. TA suggests through the influence of the environment not bring in. we can find ourselves taking a broad stand of our relationship with other people. We can take a position equality with the follow humans. Or ‘I’m OK, you’re OK.’ Or a depressive position: putting ourselves below others. And arrogant position: putting others below us. Or a futile position: putting everyone down. TA suggests we like to justify this position to ourselves, even where they destroy reality. And we choose the games that confirm our own basic position. How can we put all of these to use in detecting and accessing games？  
而且与正向关注相反的负向关注也好于没有关注。戏剧三角提供了潜在的无穷的关注。它进行的是预期的冲突，即从迫害者到受害者之间反复转换。第三个观点是，游戏巩固了TA中所说的“心理地位”。TA认为环境并不能影响我们（？）。我们能发现，在和其他人的关系中，我们有自己明显的立场。我们可以和其他人有同样的（心理）地位，即“我好，你也好”。或者沮丧的心理地位，即把我们自己放得比别人低。以及傲慢的心理地位，即把别人放得自己低。或者徒劳的心理地位，即把所有人放得都低。TA认为我们喜欢为我们的心理地位辩护，即便会扭曲现实情况。而且我们选择那些能确认自己基本心理地位的游戏。我们要如何将这些理论用在发现游戏呢？
 All the point I’d like to emphases first, which applies the whole serious. Most of us possibly come across those twee training videos on relationships or sestinas. We show someone use a prescript technique to stand up turbidly or monopoly coworker. And in response, the abusing gracely backs down, meeting they were reasonable and get magically transform then to a cheerful cooperating human being. We all know life isn’t like that. People who enjoy the superior position in the non-equal relationship don’t give up so easily. The most of them persist or even escalate their bills. People’s tenacity game play very hugely. Sometimes it’s impossible to shift the interacting to a positive fair exchange. With them in mind, here is some of the options TA present dealing with games.  
所有观点中，我首先要强调的是（？）。我们大部分中的人可能碰到那些人际关系的培训视频（？）。我们展示一些人……（？）。作为回应，……（？）。我们都知道人生并非如此。那些喜欢在不平等的人际关系中处在优地位的人，并不会轻易放弃。他们中大部分人会坚持甚至提高砝码。人们会不屈不挠地玩游戏。有时把互相的影响转换成积极的公平交流是不可能的。这要保持在心，同时TA在处理游戏时，也有一些选择。
Games often seem to be over before you were even awaring you played one. Because we can got lost at the moment, so before the game begins, really try and deconstruct what happens. How does it start? Who starts it? What happens in the game? What kinds of feelings do you experience? How do they end? Awareness of these factors can latter allow you to facture the game.
在你意识到自己玩游戏时，游戏通常看起来已经结束。因为我们会在玩游戏时迷失自己。所以在游戏开始前，尝试拆开分析发生了什么。它如何开始的？谁起的头？在游戏里发生了什么？你感受到了什么情绪？它是如何结束的？意识到这些因素能让你随后（？）游戏。
Consider what needs of yours being hoping to. If there is a need for approval, can you risk disapproval? If there is a need to feel understood. Face with someone determining to misunderstand you no matter what you say. Can you allow yourself to let it go of that need?  Give it so big explore in more that latterly serious. Look out for discounts and this doesn’t mean reduction in your bills. In TA, discount refers to statements that distort or deny some aspect reality.
思考一下，你希望满足什么需求？如果你有一个得到支持的需求，你能冒不被支持的风险吗？如果有一个受到理解的需求，无论你说什么，有人误解你， 面对他。你能允许你对这个需求放手吗？……寻找漠视，但这并不表示减少你的砝码（？）。在TA中，漠视是指对部分现实的曲解和否认。
“That painting’s rubbish” is a discount. Claiming the painting is abjectly worthless. “I don’t like that painting’ is not. Games always in tell some kind of discount. 
“这幅画很垃圾”是一个漠视，称这个画是毫无价值的。“我不喜欢这幅画”不是漠视。游戏通常有一些漠视
Due to the split natural game in transaction, there after  characterized slippery feels them. For instance maybe someone trying to come cross your friend. Well, actually put you down. That slippery feel can be a warning. If you’re coming aware you are in a game. There is various options can be consider. You can share your awareness of the game with the other player and invite them step out with you, response from Adult. Taking the original ‘why don’t you/yes but’ scenario. The parent component here shows itself. In B’s consumption he can think the solution A hasn’t thought off.  
……比如，可能有人想（？）你的朋友，这确实让你不爽。这种情绪可能是个警告。如果你意识到你在一个游戏里，有可以考虑很多选择。你可以把你意识到的游戏告诉对方，并用成人的方式回应，邀请他们和你一起走出游戏。拿此前的“你为什么不/是的，但是”的场景来说，父母自我表现了出来。从B的角度，他可以想出一些A没想到的解决办法。
Take that parent component away and let’s see what we left with. Here B gives A credit for finding her own solutions. A now have no idea to reject. They could respond from different states than the one the game seems to invite. This refers back to the negative and positive aspect of parent and child discussed earlier. Here for examples of alternative ego responses to the ‘why don’t you/ yes but’ game. The negative controlling parent delivers dismissive persecuting view. The positive controlling parent challenges A’s initial discount: “The task is impossible” and directs A to give a goal in an encouraging way. The negative nurturing parent lips into rescue you. And this is the most likely to cross over into ‘why don’t you/yes but’. The positive nurturing parent is willing to help but invite A to give the direction, in this way, A returns responsibility for the problem. 
把父母自我拿开，我们来看还留下什么。在此，B相信A能找到自己的解决办法。A就没有办法反驳。他们可以从不同的自我状态来回应，而不只是邀请游戏的自我状态。这涉及到此前讨论到的正面和负面的父母自我状态和儿童自我状态。这有一些例子，来替换对“你为什么不/是的，但是”游戏的反应。负面的控制型父母自我状态用轻蔑的态度。正面的控制型父母改变A最初的漠视：“这个事情不可能做到”，并引导和鼓励A有个目标。负面的养育型父母会去拯救你，这很可能会进入“你为什么不/是的，但是”的游戏。正面的养育型父母会帮助A，但是会邀请A提供解决的方向，通过这种方式，A开始为问题承担责任。
If someone is determining to processed display reasonable responses and repeated communication boundaries. The best move might be to use flat out on plan for them. That’s little to begin by rising with people who stuck in the dramatic role. This video touches some of TA’s ideas about games. In the next video, I’ll take a close look on gimmick. 
如果一个人决定去使用理性的应对方式，并重复人际的界限。最好的做法可能就是……。将卡在戏剧角色中的人解救出来，这只是小小的开始（？）。这个视频涉及了TA中的游戏理论，在下一个视频，我将会进一步讲述饵。
